Sponsors
--------
:slug: sponsors
:title: Sponsors
:order: 29
:menu_parent: t7s1

Platinum Sponsors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Below are groups who support the Open Source Lab through annual contributions of
*$100,000* or more.

.. image:: /images/Google.gif
    :scale: 100%
    :alt: Google Logo
    :target: http://www.google.com/

Google is one of the world's leading search engines and is quickly becoming a
leader in the Web services industry. According to their website, "Google's
mission is to organize the world's information and make it universally
accessible and useful." The OSL shares in this mission by organizing the
resources of the open source community, making it easier for developers to focus
on writing code.

Google sponsors the OSL through financial grants. This funding helps the OSL
provide the community with physical hosting and bandwidth, and covers the cost
of "Smart Hands" support. Google is a big supporter of the open source movement,
producing open code of their own (see `code.google.com`_), and sponsoring the
Summer of Code program. Each year Google puts millions of dollars toward open
source research and development through this program.

.. _code.google.com: https://code.google.com/


.. image:: /images/Schooner_Logo.jpg
    :scale: 100%
    :alt: Schooner Logo
    :target: http://www.sandisk.com/products/enterprise-software/membrain/

Schooner Information Technology has pioneered a new generation of data access
appliances specifically designed for information-intensive Web 2.0 and cloud
computing data centers.

In support of the open source community, Schooner has donated its flagship
appliances for Memcached and MySQL Enterprise™ with InnoDB to the OSU Open
Source Lab. By combining the most advanced technologies currently available,
including highly parallel flash controllers, high-throughput networking and
Intel’s innovative multi-thread Nehalem processor with a proprietary software
optimization environment, Schooner is revolutionizing storage for
information-intensive companies using Memcached and MySQL. The result is
Schooner’s highly integrated hardware and software solutions for Memcached and
MySQL, offering breakthrough performance, scalability and reliability while
substantially decreasing overall power consumption.


.. image:: /images/tds_logo.jpg
    :scale: 100%
    :alt: TDS Logo
    :target: http://tdstelecom.com/

TDS Telecom is a major telephone and Internet services provider. TDS Telecom has
made a large donation of bandwidth to the Open Source Lab, helping millions of
people review or download free software every day.

For a five-year period, the OSL will receive 2 gigabits of bandwidth − a volume
of Internet connectivity that is more than five times higher than the total used
by the rest of the university. In addition, OSU servers will be hosted in a TDS
data center. The bandwidth provided gives the OSL the ability to host FTP
servers in both New York, N.Y., and Chicago, Ill., where files for many open
source projects are mirrored for download from the main FTP server hosted in
Corvallis, Ore.


Gold Sponsors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: /images/csi_logo_0.png
    :scale: 100%
    :alt: CSI Logo
    :target: http://www.csinitiative.com/

The Collaborative Software Initiative (CSI) brings together like-minded
companies to build software applications at a fraction of the cost of
traditional methods.

CSI introduces a market-changing process that applies open source methodologies
to building collaboratively developed software.


.. image:: /images/facebook_logo_gold_sponsor.png
    :scale: 100%
    :alt: Facebook Logo
    :target: http://facebook.com/

Facebook is a social utility that helps more than 900 million people around the
world communicate more efficiently with their friends, family and coworkers.

The site has been built on common open source software such as Linux, Apache,
MySQL and PHP, and over the past few years the company has developed a number of
open source infrastructure technologies to support the website's growth
including HipHop for PHP, Cassandra, Hive, Scribe and Thrift. Facebook engineers
actively contribute and participate in various open source projects, especially
around the Apache Hadoop ecosystem, developing technologies that facilitate the
sharing of information through the social graph.


Silver Sponsors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: /images/lf_logo_1.png
    :scale: 100%
    :alt: Linux Foundation Logo

The Linux Foundation promotes, protects and standardizes Linux.

To achieve these tasks, the foundation provides legal services to Linux
developers, collaborates on the Linux Standards Base, hosts events for the Linux
community and represents Linux in the press.


Bronze Sponsors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: /images/AS_posC_tag_web_150.jpg
    :scale: 100%
    :alt: ActiveState Logo

ActiveState creates and provides industry-recognized tools and professional
business solutions for corporations and developers who use dynamic languages.

ActiveState's open source language distributions − ActivePerl, ActivePython and
ActiveTcl − are renowned for their quality and relied upon by companies and
developers worldwide.


.. image:: /images/civicrm_logo_text.gif
    :scale: 100%
    :alt: CiviCRM Logo

CiviCRM is an open source and free-for-download constituent relationship
management solution.

CiviCRM is web-based, open source, internationalized and designed specifically
to meet the needs of advocacy, nonprofit and non-governmental groups.
Integration with both Drupal and Joomla! content management systems offers the
tools to connect, communicate with and activate your supporters and
constituents.


.. image:: /images/ibm-logo_small.jpg
    :scale: 100%
    :alt: IBM Logo

IBM has contributed to projects hosted at the Open Source Lab by donating
hardware resources and through financial contributions.

IBM has long been an advocate, sponsor and contributor to the Linux developer
community and Open Technology development. Continuing this tradition of support,
IBM has contributed a number of POWER7 servers to the OSL for the purpose of
Linux and open source project development by the community on the Power
Architecture. Please see: http://osuosl.org/services/powerdev for more
information and SSH-based remote access to Linux on POWER servers.
