Government Open Source Conference
=================================
:slug: about/goscon
:order: 100

.. image:: /images/opendocs_panel.jpg
   :scale: 80%
   :align: right
   :alt: OpenDocs Panel

The `Government Open Source Conference`_ was produced and hosted by Oregon State
University’s Open Source Lab (OSL) as part of its mission to educate and build
community from 2005-2011.

.. _Government Open Source Conference: http://www.goscon.org


In 2005 a Public Sector program was established within the OSL to educate and
share information amongst governmental organizations and other public sector
institutions. While many highly technical events exist for developers, system
administrators and other technical staff, no adequate source of information or
event existed which was designed for information technology management and the
staff they rely on to evaluate, plan and resource, and oversee implementation of
enterprise-class technology solutions. The nonprofit GOSCON was established in
October of 2005 as a platform for education, information and collaboration.

.. image:: /images/osl_goscon_table.jpg
   :scale: 80%
   :align: right
   :alt: OSL GOSCON Table

In 2008, GOSCON expanded its program to include the international community and
conducted the First Annual `Open Information and Communications Technology (ICT)
Summit`_. The Summit focused on national, regional and local government
initiatives, projects, and policies and hosted participants in Portland and via
videoconferencing from five continents. The “Global Dialogue on the Impact of
Open Source Software in Transforming Government” segment was produced in
collaboration with the World Bank Group Global ICT. Representation included
Brazil, Senegal, Russia, Belgium, Sri Lanka and Washington D.C. with
representation at the Portland, Oregon site from Ireland, Japan and the US.
Participation included organizations such as OpenForum Europe and Japan’s OSS
Open Lab.

.. _Open Information and Communications Technology (ICT) Summit: http://www.goscon.org/summit


By its sixth year, GOSCON helped to fuel the adoption of open source technology
in the public sector by attracting IT leaders worldwide to its annual event.
Conference content included lessons learned in the development and integration
of open source solutions into agency environments, exposure to projects and
existing software applications and services, and opportunities to establish and
foster relationships for collaboration around shared interests. Industry
luminaries and pioneers gathered, presented and networked from public and
private sectors in a non-commercial setting. The last GOSCON took place in 2011
in Washington D.C.

There are currently no plans in place to reinstate GOSCON. If you would like
more information on please contact info-at-goscon.org
