Hosted Communities
==================
:slug: communities
:title: Hosted Projects
:order: 13
:menu_parent: t4s1


`Ångström`_
-----------

`Ångström`_ was started by a small group of people who worked on the
OpenEmbedded, OpenZaurus and OpenSimpad projects to unify their effort to make a
stable and user-friendly distribution for embedded devices like handhelds,
set-top boxes and network-attached storage devices and more. The OSL hosts their
Narcissus Image Builder via the Nas-Admin.org project.

.. _Ångström: http://www.angstrom-distribution.org/


`Apache Software Foundation`_
------------------------------

The `Apache Software Foundation`_ manages the development of many open source
software packages, most notably the Apache Web server. The OSL provides hosting
for portions of the Apache Software Foundation's operational infrastructure.

.. _Apache Software Foundation: http://www.apache.org/


`Aqsis`_
--------

`Aqsis`_ is a high-quality, photorealistic 3D rendering solution. It complies
with the Renderman® interface standard defined by Pixar. The OSL provides
hosting for a server and a Xen virtual machine for handling the Web, mail and
development needs of Aqsis.

.. _Aqsis: http://aqsis.org/


`BusyBox`_
----------

`BusyBox`_ combines tiny versions of many common UNIX utilities into a single
small executable. It provides replacements for most of the utilities you usually
find in GNU fileutils, shellutils, etc. BusyBox provides a fairly complete
environment for any small or embedded system. The OSL hosts the BusyBox and
uClibc development and public-facing websites.

.. _BusyBox: http://busybox.net/


`Cacti`_
--------

`Cacti`_ is a complete network graphing solution designed to harness the power
of RRDtool's data storage and graphing functionality. Cacti provides a fast
poller, advanced graph templating, multiple data acquisition methods and user
management features out of the box. All of this is wrapped in an intuitive,
easy-to-use interface that makes sense for LAN-sized installations up to complex
networks with hundreds of devices. The OSL hosts the Cacti website along with
secondary DNS, secondary MX and other miscellaneous services.

.. _Cacti: http://cacti.net/


`CentOS`_
---------

`CentOS`_ is an enterprise-class Linux distribution derived from sources freely
provided to the public by a prominent North American Enterprise Linux vendor.
CentOS conforms fully with the upstream vendor's redistribution policy and aims
to be 100 percent binary compatible. CentOS as a project has grown many fold
over the last few years and with this added growth has come the extra
responsibility of making sure we have good reliable services that stay available
24/7. This is just the problem that OSUOSL's hosting facilities helps us address
– they are available, professionally run and have a very competent team of
people. Keeping this in mind, it is at OSUOSL that we are building our level-1
backup and long-term disaster recovery site.

.. _CentOS: http://www.centos.org/


`CiviCRM`_
----------

`CiviCRM`_ is an open source and free-for-download constituent relationship
management solution. Web-based, open source and highly customizable, CiviCRM is
software designed specifically to meet the needs of advocacy, nonprofit and
non-governmental groups. CiviCRM's integration with both the Drupal and Joomla!
content management systems provides tools to connect and communicate with
supporters and constituents. The OSL hosts much of the infrastructure for
CiviCRM including the main website, the demo server, the documentation server,
and discussion forums.

.. _CiviCRM: http://civicrm.org/


`CONNECT`_
----------

`CONNECT`_ is an open source software solution that lets health information
technology systems and health information exchanges securely communicate with
each other using nationally-recognized standards and guidelines. With CONNECT,
information can be easily shared among IT systems at doctors' offices, federal
agencies, state agencies, disability organizations, pharmacies, payors and other
health stakeholders, making it possible for information to follow patients.
CONNECT enables health information exchange within an organization, regionally
and at the national level using the Nationwide Health Information Network
conventions and standards. The OSL serves as a main mirror for CONNECT downloads
and hosts the CONNECT community website.

.. _CONNECT: http://www.connectopensource.org/


`Crosstool-NG`_
---------------

`Crosstool-NG`_ aims to make it easy to build cross-toolchains for many
architectures, using the traditional FLOSS components (gcc, binutils, glibc,
uClibc, etc.) and offering a lot of configuration options. While the process of
building a toolchain can look like black magic, crosstool-NG automates that
process with a set of scripts and patches in an easy-to-follow flow, so the user
understands what is happening and why it is happening.

.. _Crosstool-NG: http://crosstool-ng.org/


`Debian`_
----------

`Debian GNU/Linux`_ is a distribution known for its stability and roots in the
free software philosophy. The OSL hosts the server for bugs.debian.org, along
with some of their internal infrastructure. We also have development
environments for MIPS, PPC, SPARC and Alpha ports.

.. _Debian: http://debian.org/
.. _Debian GNU/Linux: http://debian.org/


`Deluge`_
---------

`Deluge`_ is a full-featured BitTorrent client for Linux, Unix and Windows. It
uses libtorrent in its backend and PyGTK for its user interface. Deluge features
a rich plugin collection; in fact, most of Deluge's functionality is available
in the form of plugins. The OSL hosts the Deluge website, code repository and
development website and also hosts Deluge downloads on the lab's FTP mirror.

.. _Deluge: http://deluge-torrent.org/


`Drupal`_
---------

`Drupal`_ is a PHP-based content management system used in many installations
worldwide, along with quite a few here at Oregon State. Drupal needed assistance
with a Web server that was crippled under the load of its own popularity. With
the financial help of Drupal's users, the OSL has built a cluster for Drupal's
websites that can scale along with its growth.

.. _Drupal: http://drupal.org/


`DSpace`_
---------

`DSpace`_ is the software of choice for academic, nonprofit and commercial
organizations building open digital repositories. It is free and easy to install
"out of the box" and completely customizable to fit the needs of any
organization. The OSL hosts the subversion code repository for the DSpace
project.

.. _DSpace: http://dspace.org/


`Eclipse Communication Framework`_
----------------------------------

The `Eclipse Communication Framework`_ is a project working to add collaboration
tools to the popular Eclipse development environment. These tools range from
text-based chat to upcoming Voice over Internet Protocol support. The OSL hosts
Concurrent Versions System and development environments for the Eclipse
Communication Framework team.

.. _Eclipse Communication Framework: http://www.eclipse.org/ecf/


`Elgg`_
-------

`Elgg`_ is an award-winning open source social networking engine that provides a
robust framework on which to build all kinds of social environments. Elgg is
designed to be fully customizable through its modular plugins and robust views
system. The OSL provides hosting for Elgg.org's website, The Elgg Foundation's
website, the el.gg URL shortener and various other sites.

.. _Elgg: http://www.elgg.org/


`Enlightenment`_
----------------

The `Enlightenment`_ project is best known for the Enlightenment window manager.
In addition to being a window manager for Linux/X11 and others, Enlightment has
a whole suite of libraries to help create beautiful user interfaces with much
less work than doing it the old fashioned way. The OSL hosts two servers for
Enlightenment.

.. _Enlightenment: http://www.enlightenment.org/


`Etherboot Project`_
--------------------

The `Etherboot Project`_ creates network booting code that allows computers to
load their operating system from a network. Etherboot code can be stored in a
number of places, including BIOS Flash, EPROMs, floppy, CD, HD or other bootable
media. The OSL hosts two co-located servers for the Etherboot project, which
include Web, testing and development services.

.. _Etherboot Project: http://etherboot.org/


`Fedora Project`_
-----------------

The `Fedora Project`_ is a community with the primary purpose of leading the
advancement of free, open source software and content. Fedora, the operating
system, is the Fedora Project's flagship product. The OSL is hosting Fedora test
servers, proof of concept hosts and other ad-hoc needs that Fedora often runs
into during the course of building a new Fedora release.

.. _Fedora Project: http://fedoraproject.org/


`Finnix`_
---------

`Finnix`_ is a self-contained, bootable Linux CD distribution for system
administrators based on Debian. The OSL provides the primary mirror for the
Finnix CD images.

.. _Finnix: http://finnix.org/


`FOSSBazaar`_
-------------

`FOSSBazaar`_ is an open community launched by Hewlett-Packard and founding
partners. As a workgroup of the Linux Foundation, they are dedicated to
understanding the issues that exist with free and open source software. This
initiative serves the open source community as a forum representative of open
source users and providers worldwide. The OSL hosts the FOSSBazaar website.

.. _FOSSBazaar: https://fossbazaar.org/


`FOSSology`_
------------

`FOSSology`_ is an open source project built around an open and modular
architecture for analyzing software. FOSSology analyzes a given set of software
packages and reports items such as the software licenses and families of
software licenses used by these packages. The FOSSology project is planning to
create a public repository with extensive software license analysis and other
reports about open source software. The OSL hosts Web services, the
build/packaging environment and the public repository for FOSSology.

.. _FOSSology: http://www.fossology.org/projects/fossology


`Freenode`_
-----------

The `Freenode`_ Internet Relay Chat network facilitates open collaboration for
people worldwide. It is used by many open source projects as well as Oregon
State. The OSL hosts a Freenode Web server.

.. _Freenode: http://freenode.net/


`Gentoo Foundation`_
--------------------

`Gentoo Linux`_ is a distribution built on a customizable foundation, allowing
users to build a Linux system exactly the way they need it. The Gentoo community
was the first hosted client of the OSL, and it still utilizes many servers and
development platforms here. The OSL hosts the Gentoo Foundation's main developer
host, bugs, forums, amd64 development, sparc development, hppa development,
itanium development, alpha development and ppc64 development.

.. _Gentoo Foundation: http://gentoo.org/
.. _Gentoo Linux: http://gentoo.org/


`GNOME`_
--------

`GNOME`_ offers an easy-to-understand desktop for Linux and UNIX computers.
GNOME is used in a variety of Linux distributions as the default desktop
environment for its ease of use. The OSL provides the GNOME project with remote
system monitoring of their infrastructure via a Nagios server.

.. _GNOME: http://gnome.org/


`GNOME Hispano`_
----------------

`GNOME Hispano`_, the Spanish GNOME users and developers association, is devoted
to spreading the GNOME environment to Spanish-speaking people. The OSL hosts
GNOME Hispano's main servers.

.. _GNOME Hispano: http://es.gnome.org/


`GOSCON`_
---------

`GOSCON`_ is the premier annual Government Open Source Conference organized by
the OSL. A national conference designed for government IT management, the
mission of GOSCON is to provide leading-edge education and a forum for
cross-agency collaboration among government consortia. GOSCON also helps public
sector entities evaluate the benefit of utililzing open and community-source
methodologies for custom software development.

.. _GOSCON: http://goscon.org/


`Inkscape`_
-----------

`Inkscape`_ is an open source vector graphics editor, with capabilities similar
to those of Adobe Illustrator, CorelDRAW and Xara X, using the W3C standard
Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) file format. Inkscape supports many advanced SVG
features (markers, clones, alpha blending, etc.) and great care is taken in
designing a streamlined interface. It is very easy to edit nodes, perform
complex path operations, trace bitmaps and much more. Inkscape also aims to
maintain a thriving user and developer community by using open,
community-oriented development. The OSL hosts a Virtual Machine for the Inkscape
website, wiki and various development builds.

.. _Inkscape: http://inkscape.org/


`Jaws`_
-------

`Jaws`_ is a content management system and framework used to create dynamic
websites. Written in PHP, it provides a simple yet powerful framework for
developers to design their own modules. The OSL provides Web, development and
mailing list hosting for the Jaws Project.

.. _Jaws: http://www.jaws-project.com/


`Jenkins`_
----------

`Jenkins`_ is the leading open source continuous integration server. Built with
Java, it provides over 300 plugins to support building and testing virtually any
and every project. The OSL provides both primary and secondary mirroring
infrastructure along with virtualized machines to help the Jenkins development
community.

.. _Jenkins: http://jenkins-ci.org/


`KDE`_
------

`KDE`_ is a robust, easy-to-use yet powerful Linux desktop environment. The OSL
provides hosting for two of KDE's websites: dot.kde.org and spreadkde.org. The
lab also helps ease the distribution of the code behind KDE by serving as the
master.kde.org node.

.. _KDE: http://kde.org/


`KernelTrap`_
-------------

Kerneltrap is a website publishing news and information about operating system
kernels and internals. Although there is a heavy focus on the Linux kernel,
there is information about all other operating systems as well. The OSL hosts
the Kerneltrap website, utilizing our own database infrastructure in the back
end.



`Linux Driver Project`_
-----------------------

The `Linux Driver Project`_ is striving to offer companies free Linux driver
development, with the resulting drivers being added to the main Linux kernel
source tree. The OSL hosts the Linux Driver Project’s website, wiki and mailing
lists.

.. _Linux Driver Project: http://www.linuxdriverproject.org/


`Linux Foundation`_
-------------------

The `Linux Foundation`_ promotes, protects and advances Linux. To achieve these
tasks, the Linux Foundation provides legal services to Linux developers,
collaborates on the Linux Standards Base, hosts events for the Linux community
and responds in the press to competitors' attacks on Linux. The OSL hosts the
Linux Foundation's infrastructure including websites, email and development
machines.

.. _Linux Foundation: http://linuxfoundation.org/


`Linux Fund`_
-------------

`Linux Fund`_ is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that provides financial and
advisory support to the free and open software community. Linux Fund has given
away over $750,000 to open source events and development since its founding in
1999, using funds raised through its line of credit cards and direct donations.
The OSL hosts the Linux Fund website.

.. _Linux Fund: http://linuxfund.org/


`LinuxChix`_
------------

`LinuxChix`_ is a community for women who like Linux and women and men who want
to support women in computing. They offer mailing lists, educational courses and
conference meetups for people interested in promoting the growth of Linux use by
women. The OSL hosts the LinuxChix.org server, sponsored by Intel Corporation.

.. _LinuxChix: http://linuxchix.org/


`LinuxLookup`_
--------------

`LinuxLookup`_ is a site providing Linux news, reviews and tutorials. The OSL
hosts the LinuxLookup server.

.. _LinuxLookup: http://linuxlookup.com/


`MeeGo`_
--------

`MeeGo`_ is an open source Linux-based platform that is capable of running on
multiple computing devices, including handsets, netbooks, tablets, connected TVs
and in-vehicle infotainment systems. It is a Linux Foundation project that
brings the Moblin and Maemo projects together in a single platform. The OSL
hosts the infrastructure for the MeeGo project.

.. _MeeGo: https://meego.com/


`Mozdev`_
---------

`Mozdev`_ offers hosting and resources for projects related to the Mozilla suite
of applications. The OSL hosts a Web server for the Mozdev team. Mozdev is
independent of the Mozilla Foundation.

.. _Mozdev: http://mozdev.org/


`MozillaZine`_
--------------

`MozillaZine`_ is a site devoted to users and developers of Mozilla
applications. Here you can find third-party news reporting, user forums and
developer blogs from Mozilla devs. The OSL has helped Mozillazine build a
cluster that stands up to the needs of this growing community. Mozillazine is
independent of the Mozilla Foundation.

.. _MozillaZine: http://mozillazine.org/


`MusicBrainz`_
--------------

`MusicBrainz`_ is an open music encyclopedia that collects music metadata and
makes it available to the public. MusicBrainz aims to be the ultimate source of
music information and the universal lingua franca for music. The OSL hosts the
main public mirror of the `MusicBrainz Database`_.

.. _MusicBrainz: http://musicbrainz.org/
.. _MusicBrainz Database: http://musicbrainz.org/doc/MusicBrainz_Database


`MythTV`_
---------

`MythTV`_ is a free, open source software digital video recorder (DVR) project
distributed under the terms of the GNU GPL. It has been under heavy development
since 2002, and now contains most features one would expect from a good DVR (and
many new ones that you soon won't be able to live without). The OSL hosts the
MythTV.org server.

.. _MythTV: http://mythtv.org/


`Nas-Admin.org`_
----------------

`Nas-Admin.org`_ promotes FOSS development through system administration support
and mentoring of new FOSS system administrators. They also provide project
hosting for various embedded projects such as OpenEmbedded, WebOS Internals and
NSLU2 Linux. The OSL hosts the production virtualization servers for all the
projects Nas-Admin.org hosts.

.. _Nas-Admin.org: http://www.nas-admin.org/


`Network Time Foundation`_
--------------------------

`Network Time Foundation`_ devotes its attention to solving problems associated
with keeping accurate time on computers. From the earliest days of the internet,
the Network Time Protocol (NTP) has been and remains the best way to keep
correct time on each computer in a network. The OSL hosts the NTF’s core
infrastructure on virtual machines.

.. _Network Time Foundation: http://networktimefoundation.org/


`NovaPorts`_
------------

The `NovaPorts`_ team provides access to operating systems and utilities on
portable devices in a manner that fully respects the intellectual property
rights, copyrights, trademarks and other interests of the developers of those
operating systems and utilities. The OSL hosts most of the NovaPorts project
sites via the `Nas-Admin.org`_ project.

.. _NovaPorts: http://www.novaports.org/
.. _Nas-Admin.org: http://www.nas-admin.org/


`NSLU2-Linux`_
--------------

The `NSLU2-Linux`_ project's aim is to provide information and support to those
people wishing to use Linux and custom firmware on the Linksys NSLU2, the
Synology DS101, the Iomega NAS100d, the D-Link DSMG600 and other ixp4xx-based
devices with large attached storage. The OSL hosts most of the NSLU2-Linux sites
via the `Nas-Admin.org`_ project.

.. _NSLU2-Linux: http://nslu2-linux.org/
.. _Nas-Admin.org: http://www.nas-admin.org/


`One Laptop per Child`_
-----------------------

The `One Laptop per Child`_ (OLPC) initiative is creating an inexpensive laptop
so that every child in the world can own one. The OSL developed the multimedia
functionality of the laptop, including video and audio playback. The lab hosts
the OLPC support forums located at http://forum.laptop.org.

.. _One Laptop per Child: http://www.laptop.org/


`Open and Free Technology Community`_
-------------------------------------

The `Open and Free Technology Community (OFTC)`_ is an Internet Relay Chat
network that aims to provide stable and effective collaboration services to
members of the community in any part of the world, while closely listening to
their needs and desires. The OSL hosts a node of the OFTC IRC network.

.. _Open and Free Technology Communicty: http://oftc.net/
.. _Open and Free Technology Community (OFTC): http://oftc.net/


`Open Source Digital Voting Foundation`_
-----------------------------------------

The `OSDV Foundation`_ is building an open source election technology framework
for adoption and deployment by U.S. jurisdictions. The OSL hosts websites for
the foundation, the development servers for the TrustTheVote project and
application servers for their partner `RockTheVote`_’s voter registration
project.

.. _Open Source Digital Voting Foundation: http://osdv.org/
.. _OSDV Foundation: http://osdv.org/
.. _RockTheVote: http://www.rockthevote.org/


`Open Source Geospatial Foundation`_
------------------------------------

The `Open Source Geospatial Foundation`_ is a nonprofit organization that
supports and promotes the collaborative development of open geospatial
technologies and data. The foundation provides financial, organizational and
legal support to the broader open source geospatial community. The OSL hosts
OSGeo's infrastructure.

.. _Open Source Geospatial Foundation: http://www.osgeo.org/


`OpenEFS`_
----------

`OpenEFS`_ provides software distribution and change control for heterogeneous
clients using distributed file systems, such as NFS v3, NFS v4 and OpenAFS. The
OSL hosts the OpenEFS website, development site, code repository and mailing
lists, and hosts downloads on our FTP mirror.

.. _OpenEFS: http://openefs.org/


`OpenEmbedded`_
---------------

`OpenEmbedded`_ is the build framework for embedded Linux. OpenEmbedded offers a
best-in-class cross-compile environment and allows developers to create a
complete Linux distribution for embedded systems. The OSL hosts most of the
OpenEmbedded project sites via the `Nas-Admin.org`_ project.

.. _OpenEmbedded: http://www.openembedded.org/


`OpenLLDP`_
-----------

The `OpenLLDP`_ project aims to provide a comprehensive implementation of the
IEEE standard 802.1AB Link Layer Discovery Protocol. The goal of LLDP is to
provide an inter-vendor compatible mechanism to deliver Link-Layer notifications
to adjacent network devices. The Open Source implementation of LLDP provided by
the OpenLLDP project is intended to help foster wider adoption of LLDP. The OSL
hosts the project's website, wiki and code review system.

.. _OpenLLDP: http://openlldp.sourceforge.net/


`OpenMRS`_
----------

`OpenMRS`_ is a community-developed, open source, enterprise electronic medical
record system framework. The OSL hosts the OpenMRS website and manages
Subversion repositories for the OpenMRS medical record system application and
many of its add-on modules and affiliated projects.

.. _OpenMRS: http://openmrs.org/


`Oregon State Linux Users Group`_
---------------------------------

The `OSLUG`_ is a student-driven Linux Users Group at OSU. The OSL hosts the
Linux Users Group Web server.

.. _Oregon State Linux Users Group: http://lug.oregonstate.edu/
.. _OSLUG: http://lug.oregonstate.edu/


`Parrot`_
---------

`Parrot`_ is a virtual machine designed to efficiently compile and execute
bytecode for dynamic languages. Parrot currently hosts a variety of language
implementations in various stages of completion, including Tcl, Javascript,
Ruby, Lua, Scheme, PHP, Python, Perl 6, APL and a .NET bytecode translator. The
OSL hosts the Parrot website, code repository and development site. We also host
Parrot downloads on our FTP mirror.

.. _Parrot: http://parrot.org/


`Participatory Culture Foundation`_
-----------------------------------

The `Participatory Culture Foundation`_ was founded in 2005 with a mission to
build tools and services that give people more ways to engage in their culture.
The OSL hosts the downloads for the Miro video player, a part of the
foundation’s platform for open media.

.. _Participatory Culture Foundation: http://participatoryculture.org/


`PHP`_
------

`PHP`_ is a widely used general purpose scripting language that is especially
suited for Web development and can be embedded into HTML. The OSL uses PHP in
many of its own applications, as do other OSL clients. In turn, the OSL hosts a
secondary mail relay server for the PHP infrastructure.

.. _PHP: http://php.net/


`phpBB`_
--------

`phpBB`_ is a high-powered, fully scalable and highly customizable open source
bulletin board package, and is possibly the most popular Web forum package used
on the net today. The OSL hosts the phpBB Web server.

.. _phpBB: http://phpbb.com/


`Plone`_
--------

`Plone`_ is a ready-to-run content management system that is built on the
powerful and free Zope application server. Plone is easy to set up and extremely
flexible and provides users with a system for managing Web content that is ideal
for project groups, communities, websites, extranets and intranets. The OSL
hosts a plone development box that hosts their version control system,
`svn.plone.org`_, as well as http://planet.plone.org, which aggregates developer
blog entries.

.. _Plone: http://plone.org/
.. _svn.plone.org: http://svn.plone.org/svn/plone/


`PPCKernel and PenguinPPC`_
---------------------------

The `PPCKernel`_ and penguinppc.org sites host informational resources for the
PowerPC code of the Linux kernel. The sites host code and mailing lists
pertaining to PowerPC. The OSL hosts both of these sites on (appropriately) PPC
hardware.

.. _PPCKernel and PenguinPPC: http://ppckernel.org/
.. _PPCKernel: http://ppckernel.org/


`Python Software Foundation`_
-----------------------------

The `Python Software Foundation`_ is a nonprofit membership organization devoted
to advancing open source technology related to the Python programming language.
Their mission is to promote, protect and advance the Python programming language
and to support and facilitate the growth of a diverse and international
community of Python programmers. The OSL provides hosting for the new PSF
servers and the speed.python.org benchmarking server.

.. _Python Software Foundation: http://www.python.org/psf/


`QEMU`_
-------

`QEMU`_ is a high-performance full system simulator supporting both emulation
and virtualization. QEMU supports emulating 14 different CPU architectures and
hundreds of different devices, and is used as the core device model by both
`Xen`_ and `KVM`_. The OSL hosts the project's webpages on a virtual machine.

.. _QEMU: http://qemu.org/
.. _Xen: http://xen.org/
.. _KVM: http://www.linux-kvm.org/page/Main_Page


`RPM`_
------

`RPM`_ is the package management system used by many Linux distributions
including RedHat Enterprise, Fedora, SUSE, CentOS, Mandriva and many others. The
RPM format is also part of the Linux Standard Base. The OSL hosts the rpm.org
website, ticket tracker, code repository and mailing lists.

.. _RPM: http://rpm.org/


`Sahana Software Foundation`_
-----------------------------

The `Sahana Software Foundation`_ manages community development of free and open
source software projects that address common coordination challenges in disaster
management. The OSL hosts Sahana Software's website and wiki.

.. _Sahana Software Foundation: http://sahanafoundation.org/


`Slackware`_
------------

`Slackware`_ calls itself "The original Linux distribution, geared toward power
and stability." Slackware makes use of the OSL's rsync infrastructure to
distribute its packages to the rest of the worldwide Slackware mirror network.

.. _Slackware: http://slackware.com/


`Software in the Public Interest, Inc.`_
-----------------------------------------

`Software in the Public Interest`_ (SPI) is a nonprofit organization that was
founded to help organizations develop and distribute open hardware and software.
They are most noted for the role they play as a foundation unit for the Debian
Linux distribution. The OSL hosts core infrastructure for the SPI foundation.

.. _Software in the Public Interest, Inc.: http://www.spi-inc.org/
.. _Software in the Public Interest: http://www.spi-inc.org/


`Systers`_
----------

`Systers`_ is the world’s largest email community of technical women in
computing. It was founded by Anita Borg in 1987, together with 12 other women,
as a small electronic mailing list for women in “systems." Today, Systers
broadly promotes the interests of women in the computing and technology fields.
The OSL hosts the Systers' website and mailing lists.

.. _Systers: http://anitaborg.org/initiatives/systers/


`TeachEngineering`_
-------------------

`TeachEngineering`_ is a digital library of K-12 math and science curriculum.
The library infrastructure is implemented entirely on Linux, is built with open
source system development tools and is itself available under the General Public
License. The library is hosted by the OSL and indexed by the National Science
Foundation's National Science Digital Library (`www.nsdl.org`_).

.. _TeachEngineering: http://www.teachengineering.org/
.. _www.nsdl.org: http://www.nsdl.org/


`Trinity Rescue Kit`_
---------------------

`Trinity Rescue Kit`_ (TRK) is a free, live Linux distribution that aims
specifically at recovery and repair operations on Windows machines, but is
equally usable for Linux recovery issues. The OSL hosts a download mirror of all
TRK files. The mirror is located at: http://ftp.osuosl.org/pub/trk/

.. _Trinity Rescue Kit: http://trinityhome.org/Home/index.php?content=TRINITY_RESCUE_KIT____CPR_FOR_YOUR_COMPUTER&front_id=12&lang=en&locale=en


`TriSano`_
----------

`TriSano`_ is an open source, citizen-focused surveillance and outbreak
management system for infectious disease, environmental hazards and bioterrorism
attacks. It allows local, state and federal entities to track, control and
ultimately prevent illness and death. The OSL hosts the TriSano automated
testing environment.

.. _TriSano: http://www.trisano.org/


`VectorLinux`_
--------------

`VectorLinux`_ is a small, fast Linux operating system for Intel, AMD and x86
compatible systems, based on one of the original Linux distributions, Slackware.
The OSL hosts `VectorLinux's primary distribution mirror`_.

.. _VectorLinux: http://vectorlinux.com/
.. _VectorLinux's primary distribution mirror: http://vectorlinux.osuosl.org/


`WebDAV`_
---------

`WebDAV`_ stands for Web-based Distributed Authoring and Versioning. It is a set
of extensions to the HTTP protocol that allows users to collaboratively edit and
manage files on remote Web servers. The OSL provides a virtual machine that
hosts the main http://webdav.org website as well as http://test.webdav.org. The
projects hosted include: cadaver (a WebDAV client), DAVLib (a C++ WebDAV library
for MacOS), Goliath (a web authoring tool for MacOS and OS X using
WebDAV), mod_dav (a WebDAV module for Apache), neon (a C HTTP and WebDAV
library) and PerlDAV (a Perl WebDAV library).

.. _WebDAV: http://www.webdav.org/


`WebOS Internals`_
------------------

`WebOS Internals`_ is a group of developers dedicated to the pursuit of an open
environment of sharing information, code and documentation related to Palm's
webOS operating system. WebOS Internals is also the main coordination body for
the open standard homebrew ecosystem of applications, patches, themes, plugins,
services and Linux utilities for webOS devices. At the leading edge of
application development, WebOS Internals has pioneered techniques such as NPAPI
browser plugins, Java and C native services and hybrid applications. The OSL
provides colocation server hosting for WebOS Internals.

.. _WebOS Internals: http://webos-internals.org/


`Xiph`_
--------

The `Xiph.Org Foundation`_ is a nonprofit corporation dedicated to protecting
the foundations of Internet multimedia from control by private interests. They
develop free media formats, including the Ogg Vorbis music and Ogg Theora video
formats. The OSL hosts development and infrastructure systems for the Xiph team.

.. _Xiph: http://xiph.org/
.. _Xiph.Org Foundation: http://xiph.org/


`Yum`_
------

`Yum`_ is a package installer/remover for RPM-based systems, and does all the
work to calculate dependencies for packages that users want to install or
remove. Yum is the default package manager for RedHat Enterprise, Fedora and
CentOS Linux distributions. The OSL hosts the website, ticket tracker, code
repositories and mailing lists for Yum. In addition to Yum, the OSL is also
hosting development sites for yum-utils, a collection of utilities and scripts
built around Yum, and createrepo, the program that creates metadata used in
package repositories (supported by Yum, APT-RTM, Red Carpet, Smart, up2date
and Yast).

.. _Yum: http://yum.baseurl.org/
